docs/02-technology-choices.md, before:

# SRE Agent - Technology Choices Document

## Document Information
- **Version**: 1.0
- **Date**: January 2025
- **Author**: SRE Team
- **Status**: Draft

## 1. Executive Summary

This document outlines the technology choices for the SRE Agent project, providing detailed justification for each selection based on performance, compatibility, maintainability, and integration requirements. The technology stack is designed to leverage modern AI/ML capabilities while ensuring seamless integration with existing infrastructure.

## 2. Technology Selection Criteria

### 2.1 Primary Criteria
- **Performance**: High-speed processing and low latency
- **Compatibility**: Seamless integration with existing systems
- **Scalability**: Ability to handle growing workloads
- **Maintainability**: Easy to maintain and extend
- **Security**: Robust security features and compliance
- **Community Support**: Active community and documentation

### 2.2 Secondary Criteria
- **Cost Effectiveness**: Optimal balance of cost and performance
- **Learning Curve**: Reasonable learning curve for the team
- **Future-Proofing**: Technology with long-term viability
- **Ecosystem**: Rich ecosystem of tools and libraries

## 3. Core Technology Stack

### 3.1 Programming Language: Python

#### 3.1.1 Selection Rationale
- **AI/ML Ecosystem**: Extensive libraries (TensorFlow, PyTorch, scikit-learn)
- **Agent Framework Compatibility**: Native support in Agno AgentOS
- **MCP Integration**: Excellent MCP (Model Context Protocol) support
- **Observability Tools**: Strong integration with Signoz, ClickHouse, MongoDB
- **Rapid Development**: Fast prototyping and development cycles
- **Team Expertise**: Existing Python expertise in the team

#### 3.1.2 Key Libraries
```python
# Core AI/ML Libraries
openai>=1.0.0              # Azure OpenAI integration
langchain>=0.1.0           # LLM orchestration
pydantic>=2.0.0            # Data validation

# Agent Framework
agno-agentos>=1.0.0        # Primary agent framework
unpage-patterns>=0.1.0     # Configuration patterns

# MCP Integration
mcp>=1.0.0                 # Model Context Protocol
mcp-servers>=0.1.0         # MCP server implementations

# Observability Integration
signoz-client>=1.0.0       # Signoz API client
clickhouse-connect>=0.6.0  # ClickHouse integration
pymongo>=4.0.0             # MongoDB integration
kubernetes>=28.0.0         # Kubernetes API client

# Communication
slack-sdk>=3.0.0           # Slack API integration
fastapi>=0.100.0           # API framework
uvicorn>=0.23.0            # ASGI server

# Data Processing
pandas>=2.0.0              # Data manipulation
numpy>=1.24.0              # Numerical computing
pydantic>=2.0.0            # Data validation
```

### 3.2 AI/ML Framework: Azure OpenAI

#### 3.2.1 Selection Rationale
- **Enterprise Grade**: Production-ready with enterprise support
- **High Performance**: Fast response times and high throughput
- **Advanced Models**: Access to GPT-4, GPT-3.5-turbo, and specialized models
- **Cost Effective**: Competitive pricing for enterprise usage
- **Security**: Enterprise-grade security and compliance
- **Integration**: Native integration with Azure services

#### 3.2.2 Model Selection
```python
# Primary Models
GPT-4-turbo: {
    "use_case": "Complex RCA analysis and reasoning",
    "max_tokens": 128000,
    "temperature": 0.1,
    "cost_per_1k_tokens": 0.01
}

GPT-3.5-turbo: {
    "use_case": "Standard analysis and quick responses",
    "max_tokens": 16000,
    "temperature": 0.2,
    "cost_per_1k_tokens": 0.002
}

# Embedding Models
text-embedding-ada-002: {
    "use_case": "Semantic search and similarity matching",
    "dimensions": 1536,
    "cost_per_1k_tokens": 0.0001
}
```

### 3.3 Agent Framework: Agno AgentOS

#### 3.3.1 Selection Rationale
- **Performance**: 3μs agent instantiation vs 1178μs (400x faster)
- **Memory Efficiency**: 6,656 bytes vs 136,649 bytes per agent
- **MCP Native**: Built-in MCP server discovery and tool integration
- **Cloud Native**: Designed for Kubernetes and cloud deployment
- **Memory & Knowledge**: Built-in context management for RCA
- **Scalability**: Horizontal scaling and load balancing

#### 3.3.2 Architecture Benefits
```python
# Agent Performance Comparison
agno_agentos = {
    "instantiation_time": "3μs",
    "memory_usage": "6,656 bytes",
    "concurrent_agents": "1000+",
    "mcp_integration": "Native",
    "cloud_native": True
}

# Alternative frameworks
langchain = {
    "instantiation_time": "1178μs",
    "memory_usage": "136,649 bytes",
    "concurrent_agents": "100-200",
    "mcp_integration": "Manual",
    "cloud_native": False
}
```

### 3.4 Configuration Pattern: Unpage Patterns

#### 3.4.1 Selection Rationale
- **YAML-Based**: Clean, maintainable configuration
- **Router Pattern**: Intelligent agent routing based on alert types
- **Specialized Agents**: Focused agents for different problem domains
- **Easy Maintenance**: Simple to add new agent types
- **Industry Standard**: Proven pattern in SRE automation

#### 3.4.2 Configuration Structure
```yaml
# Example Agent Configuration
description: "Investigate SSL/TLS connection failures"
prompt: |
  - Extract domain/hostname from alert
  - Check certificate expiration via MCP tools
  - Analyze network connectivity patterns
  - Correlate with recent deployments
  - Provide remediation steps
tools:
  - "signoz_logs_query"
  - "kubernetes_pod_status"
  - "mongodb_connection_metrics"
  - "slack_thread_reply"
```

## 4. Integration Technologies

### 4.1 Model Context Protocol (MCP)

#### 4.1.1 Selection Rationale
- **Standardization**: Industry standard for AI tool integration
- **Tool Discovery**: Automatic discovery of available tools
- **Security**: Scoped access to tools and data
- **Extensibility**: Easy to add new data sources
- **Compatibility**: Works with all major AI frameworks

#### 4.1.2 MCP Server Implementations
```python
# Signoz MCP Server
class SignozMCPServer:
    """MCP server for Signoz integration"""
    def query_logs(self, service, time_range):
        # Query Signoz logs via API
        
    def query_metrics(self, metric_name, filters):
        # Query Signoz metrics
        
    def query_traces(self, trace_id):
        # Query Signoz traces

# Kubernetes MCP Server
class KubernetesMCPServer:
    """MCP server for Kubernetes integration"""
    def get_pod_status(self, namespace, pod_name):
        # Get pod status and events
        
    def get_service_health(self, service_name):
        # Check service health
        
    def get_deployment_history(self, deployment_name):
        # Get recent deployment changes

# MongoDB MCP Server
class MongoDBMCPServer:
    """MCP server for MongoDB Atlas integration"""
    def get_connection_metrics(self):
        # Get connection pool metrics
        
    def get_query_performance(self, time_range):
        # Get query performance data
        
    def get_database_health(self):
        # Get database health status
```

### 4.2 Observability Integration

#### 4.2.1 Signoz Integration
- **API Client**: Native Python client for Signoz
- **Data Types**: Logs, metrics, traces, and custom metrics
- **Query Language**: SQL-like query language for data retrieval
- **Real-time**: Real-time data streaming capabilities

#### 4.2.2 ClickHouse Integration
- **Performance**: High-performance columnar database
- **Scalability**: Handles large volumes of observability data
- **Query Performance**: Fast analytical queries
- **Compression**: Efficient data compression

#### 4.2.3 MongoDB Atlas Integration
- **Document Database**: Flexible schema for application data
- **Atlas Features**: Built-in monitoring and alerting
- **Performance Insights**: Query performance analysis
- **Security**: Enterprise-grade security features

### 4.3 Communication Platform: Slack

#### 4.3.1 Selection Rationale
- **Existing Infrastructure**: Already in use by the team
- **Rich API**: Comprehensive API for bot development
- **Thread Support**: Native support for threaded conversations
- **Integration**: Easy integration with existing workflows
- **User Experience**: Familiar interface for all users

#### 4.3.2 Slack Integration Features
```python
# Slack Bot Capabilities
slack_features = {
    "webhook_processing": "Real-time alert reception",
    "slash_commands": "On-demand analysis requests",
    "thread_management": "Contextual conversations",
    "rich_formatting": "Structured message formatting",
    "user_mentions": "Targeted notifications",
    "file_sharing": "Share analysis reports and logs"
}
```

## 5. Infrastructure Technologies

### 5.1 Container Platform: AKS (Azure Kubernetes Service)

#### 5.1.1 Selection Rationale
- **Existing Infrastructure**: Already in use for microservices
- **Scalability**: Auto-scaling based on demand
- **Security**: Enterprise-grade security features
- **Integration**: Native integration with Azure services
- **Management**: Managed Kubernetes service

#### 5.1.2 AKS Configuration
```yaml
# AKS Cluster Configuration
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: sre-agent-config
data:
  cluster_name: "sre-agent-cluster"
  node_count: "3"
  vm_size: "Standard_D4s_v3"
  auto_scaling: "true"
  min_nodes: "2"
  max_nodes: "10"
```

### 5.2 Database: MongoDB Atlas

#### 5.2.1 Selection Rationale
- **Existing Database**: Already in use for application data
- **Atlas Features**: Built-in monitoring and alerting
- **Performance**: High-performance document database
- **Scalability**: Auto-scaling and sharding
- **Security**: Enterprise-grade security features

### 5.3 Monitoring: Signoz + ClickHouse

#### 5.3.1 Selection Rationale
- **Existing Stack**: Already in use for observability
- **Performance**: High-performance observability platform
- **Integration**: Native integration with OpenTelemetry
- **Cost Effective**: Open-source with enterprise features
- **Scalability**: Handles large volumes of data

## 6. Development and Deployment Tools

### 6.1 Development Tools

#### 6.1.1 Code Quality
```python
# Development Dependencies
black>=23.0.0              # Code formatting
flake8>=6.0.0              # Linting
mypy>=1.0.0                # Type checking
pytest>=7.0.0              # Testing framework
pytest-cov>=4.0.0          # Coverage reporting
pre-commit>=3.0.0          # Git hooks
```

#### 6.1.2 API Development
```python
# API Framework
fastapi>=0.100.0           # Modern API framework
uvicorn>=0.23.0            # ASGI server
pydantic>=2.0.0            # Data validation
httpx>=0.24.0              # HTTP client
```

### 6.2 Deployment Tools

#### 6.2.1 Containerization
```dockerfile
# Dockerfile
FROM python:3.11-slim
WORKDIR /app
COPY requirements.txt .
RUN pip install -r requirements.txt
COPY . .
CMD ["uvicorn", "main:app", "--host", "0.0.0.0", "--port", "8000"]
```

#### 6.2.2 Kubernetes Manifests
```yaml
# Deployment Configuration
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: sre-agent
spec:
  replicas: 3
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: sre-agent
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: sre-agent
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: sre-agent
        image: sre-agent:latest
        ports:
        - containerPort: 8000
        env:
        - name: OPENAI_API_KEY
          valueFrom:
            secretKeyRef:
              name: sre-agent-secrets
              key: openai-api-key
```

## 7. Security Considerations

### 7.1 Authentication and Authorization
- **Azure AD**: Enterprise authentication
- **RBAC**: Role-based access control
- **API Keys**: Secure API key management
- **Secrets Management**: Azure Key Vault integration

### 7.2 Data Protection
- **Encryption**: Data encryption in transit and at rest
- **Data Privacy**: Compliance with data privacy regulations
- **Access Control**: Granular access control
- **Audit Logging**: Comprehensive audit trail

## 8. Performance Considerations

### 8.1 Optimization Strategies
- **Caching**: Redis for data caching
- **Connection Pooling**: Database connection pooling
- **Async Processing**: Asynchronous request processing
- **Load Balancing**: Kubernetes load balancing

### 8.2 Monitoring and Alerting
- **Metrics**: Prometheus metrics collection
- **Logging**: Structured logging with correlation IDs
- **Tracing**: Distributed tracing for request flows
- **Alerting**: Proactive alerting for system issues

## 9. Cost Analysis

### 9.1 Infrastructure Costs
- **AKS Cluster**: ~$500/month for 3 nodes
- **MongoDB Atlas**: ~$200/month for M10 cluster
- **Signoz**: Open-source (self-hosted)
- **Azure OpenAI**: ~$1000/month for expected usage

### 9.2 Development Costs
- **Development Time**: 8-10 weeks for full implementation
- **Maintenance**: Ongoing maintenance and updates
- **Training**: Team training and documentation

## 10. Migration Strategy

### 10.1 Phase 1: Foundation
- Set up development environment
- Implement basic agent framework
- Create MCP servers for data sources

### 10.2 Phase 2: Core Features
- Implement alert processing
- Build RCA analysis engine
- Integrate with Slack

### 10.3 Phase 3: Production
- Deploy to production
- Monitor and optimize
- Train users and iterate

## 11. Risk Assessment

### 11.1 Technical Risks
- **API Dependencies**: Mitigate with fallback mechanisms
- **Performance Issues**: Implement proper monitoring and optimization
- **Integration Failures**: Robust error handling and retry logic

### 11.2 Business Risks
- **User Adoption**: Comprehensive training and documentation
- **Cost Overruns**: Regular cost monitoring and optimization
- **Timeline Delays**: Agile development with regular milestones

## 12. Conclusion

The selected technology stack provides a robust, scalable, and maintainable foundation for the SRE Agent project. The combination of Python, Azure OpenAI, Agno AgentOS, and MCP integration ensures high performance, seamless integration, and future extensibility while meeting all functional and non-functional requirements.

Commit message:

feat(knowledge): add comprehensive knowledge management system
- Add Architecture Decision Records (ADRs) with example ADR-001
- Create learning documentation with performance optimization insights
- Add project timeline and context preservation
- Include comprehensive troubleshooting guides
- Implement knowledge base structure for institutional memory
- Add memory management guidelines for AI assistants
- Create templates for decision logging and learning capture
- Include continuous learning process framework
- Add context preservation rules for project continuity
- Implement PR context integration for knowledge sharing

docs/02-technology-choices.md, after:

# SRE Agent - Technology Choices Document

## Document Information
- **Version**: 1.0
- **Date**: January 2025
- **Author**: SRE Team
- **Status**: Draft

## 1. Executive Summary

This document outlines the technology choices for the SRE Agent project, providing detailed justification for each selection based on performance, compatibility, maintainability, and integration requirements. The technology stack is designed to leverage modern AI/ML capabilities while ensuring seamless integration with existing infrastructure.

## 2. Technology Selection Criteria

### 2.1 Primary Criteria
- **Performance**: High-speed processing and low latency
- **Compatibility**: Seamless integration with existing systems
- **Scalability**: Ability to handle growing workloads
- **Maintainability**: Easy to maintain and extend
- **Security**: Robust security features and compliance
- **Community Support**: Active community and documentation

### 2.2 Secondary Criteria
- **Cost Effectiveness**: Optimal balance of cost and performance
- **Learning Curve**: Reasonable learning curve for the team
- **Future-Proofing**: Technology with long-term viability
- **Ecosystem**: Rich ecosystem of tools and libraries

## 3. Core Technology Stack

### 3.1 Programming Language: Python

#### 3.1.1 Selection Rationale
- **AI/ML Ecosystem**: Extensive libraries (TensorFlow, PyTorch, scikit-learn)
- **Agent Framework Compatibility**: Native support in Agno AgentOS
- **MCP Integration**: Excellent MCP (Model Context Protocol) support
- **Observability Tools**: Strong integration with Signoz, ClickHouse, MongoDB
- **Rapid Development**: Fast prototyping and development cycles
- **Team Expertise**: Existing Python expertise in the team

#### 3.1.2 Key Libraries
```python
# Core AI/ML Libraries
openai>=1.0.0              # Azure OpenAI integration
langchain>=0.1.0           # LLM orchestration
pydantic>=2.0.0            # Data validation

# Agent Framework
agno-agentos>=1.0.0        # Primary agent framework
unpage-patterns>=0.1.0     # Configuration patterns

# MCP Integration
mcp>=1.0.0                 # Model Context Protocol
mcp-servers>=0.1.0         # MCP server implementations

# Observability Integration
signoz-client>=1.0.0       # Signoz API client
clickhouse-connect>=0.6.0  # ClickHouse integration
pymongo>=4.0.0             # MongoDB integration
kubernetes>=28.0.0         # Kubernetes API client

# Communication
slack-sdk>=3.0.0           # Slack API integration
fastapi>=0.100.0           # API framework
uvicorn>=0.23.0            # ASGI server

# Data Processing
pandas>=2.0.0              # Data manipulation
numpy>=1.24.0              # Numerical computing
pydantic>=2.0.0            # Data validation
```

### 3.2 AI/ML Framework: Azure OpenAI

#### 3.2.1 Selection Rationale
- **Enterprise Grade**: Production-ready with enterprise support
- **High Performance**: Fast response times and high throughput
- **Advanced Models**: Access to GPT-4, GPT-3.5-turbo, and specialized models
- **Cost Effective**: Competitive pricing for enterprise usage
- **Security**: Enterprise-grade security and compliance
- **Integration**: Native integration with Azure services

#### 3.2.2 Model Selection
```python
# Primary Models
GPT-4-turbo: {
    "use_case": "Complex RCA analysis and reasoning",
    "max_tokens": 128000,
    "temperature": 0.1,
    "cost_per_1k_tokens": 0.01
}

GPT-3.5-turbo: {
    "use_case": "Standard analysis and quick responses",
    "max_tokens": 16000,
    "temperature": 0.2,
    "cost_per_1k_tokens": 0.002
}

# Embedding Models
text-embedding-ada-002: {
    "use_case": "Semantic search and similarity matching",
    "dimensions": 1536,
    "cost_per_1k_tokens": 0.0001
}
```

### 3.3 Agent Framework: Agno AgentOS

#### 3.3.1 Selection Rationale
- **Performance**: 3μs agent instantiation vs 1178μs (400x faster)
- **Memory Efficiency**: 6,656 bytes vs 136,649 bytes per agent
- **MCP Native**: Built-in MCP server discovery and tool integration
- **Cloud Native**: Designed for Kubernetes and cloud deployment
- **Memory & Knowledge**: Built-in context management for RCA
- **Scalability**: Horizontal scaling and load balancing

#### 3.3.2 Architecture Benefits
```python
# Agent Performance Comparison
agno_agentos = {
    "instantiation_time": "3μs",
    "memory_usage": "6,656 bytes",
    "concurrent_agents": "1000+",
    "mcp_integration": "Native",
    "cloud_native": True
}

# Alternative frameworks
langchain = {
    "instantiation_time": "1178μs",
    "memory_usage": "136,649 bytes",
    "concurrent_agents": "100-200",
    "mcp_integration": "Manual",
    "cloud_native": False
}
```

### 3.4 Configuration Pattern: Unpage Patterns

#### 3.4.1 Selection Rationale
- **YAML-Based**: Clean, maintainable configuration
- **Router Pattern**: Intelligent agent routing based on alert types
- **Specialized Agents**: Focused agents for different problem domains
- **Easy Maintenance**: Simple to add new agent types
- **Industry Standard**: Proven pattern in SRE automation
- **Knowledge Base Integration**: YAML patterns can include knowledge base references

#### 3.4.2 Configuration Structure
```yaml
# Example Agent Configuration
description: "Investigate SSL/TLS connection failures"
prompt: |
  - Extract domain/hostname from alert
  - Check certificate expiration via MCP tools
  - Analyze network connectivity patterns
  - Correlate with recent deployments
  - Provide remediation steps
tools:
  - "signoz_logs_query"
  - "kubernetes_pod_status"
  - "mongodb_connection_metrics"
  - "slack_thread_reply"
```

## 4. Integration Technologies

### 4.1 Model Context Protocol (MCP)

#### 4.1.1 Selection Rationale
- **Standardization**: Industry standard for AI tool integration
- **Tool Discovery**: Automatic discovery of available tools
- **Security**: Scoped access to tools and data
- **Extensibility**: Easy to add new data sources
- **Compatibility**: Works with all major AI frameworks

#### 4.1.2 MCP Server Implementations
```python
# Signoz MCP Server
class SignozMCPServer:
    """MCP server for Signoz integration"""
    def query_logs(self, service, time_range):
        # Query Signoz logs via API
        
    def query_metrics(self, metric_name, filters):
        # Query Signoz metrics
        
    def query_traces(self, trace_id):
        # Query Signoz traces

# Kubernetes MCP Server
class KubernetesMCPServer:
    """MCP server for Kubernetes integration"""
    def get_pod_status(self, namespace, pod_name):
        # Get pod status and events
        
    def get_service_health(self, service_name):
        # Check service health
        
    def get_deployment_history(self, deployment_name):
        # Get recent deployment changes

# MongoDB MCP Server
class MongoDBMCPServer:
    """MCP server for MongoDB Atlas integration"""
    def get_connection_metrics(self):
        # Get connection pool metrics
        
    def get_query_performance(self, time_range):
        # Get query performance data
        
    def get_database_health(self):
        # Get database health status
```

### 4.2 Observability Integration

#### 4.2.1 Signoz Integration
- **API Client**: Native Python client for Signoz
- **Data Types**: Logs, metrics, traces, and custom metrics
- **Query Language**: SQL-like query language for data retrieval
- **Real-time**: Real-time data streaming capabilities

#### 4.2.2 ClickHouse Integration
- **Performance**: High-performance columnar database
- **Scalability**: Handles large volumes of observability data
- **Query Performance**: Fast analytical queries
- **Compression**: Efficient data compression

#### 4.2.3 MongoDB Atlas Integration
- **Document Database**: Flexible schema for application data
- **Atlas Features**: Built-in monitoring and alerting
- **Performance Insights**: Query performance analysis
- **Security**: Enterprise-grade security features

### 4.3 Communication Platform: Slack

#### 4.3.1 Selection Rationale
- **Existing Infrastructure**: Already in use by the team
- **Rich API**: Comprehensive API for bot development
- **Thread Support**: Native support for threaded conversations
- **Integration**: Easy integration with existing workflows
- **User Experience**: Familiar interface for all users

#### 4.3.2 Slack Integration Features
```python
# Slack Bot Capabilities
slack_features = {
    "webhook_processing": "Real-time alert reception",
    "slash_commands": "On-demand analysis requests",
    "thread_management": "Contextual conversations",
    "rich_formatting": "Structured message formatting",
    "user_mentions": "Targeted notifications",
    "file_sharing": "Share analysis reports and logs"
}
```

## 5. Infrastructure Technologies

### 5.1 Container Platform: AKS (Azure Kubernetes Service)

#### 5.1.1 Selection Rationale
- **Existing Infrastructure**: Already in use for microservices
- **Scalability**: Auto-scaling based on demand
- **Security**: Enterprise-grade security features
- **Integration**: Native integration with Azure services
- **Management**: Managed Kubernetes service

#### 5.1.2 AKS Configuration
```yaml
# AKS Cluster Configuration
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: sre-agent-config
data:
  cluster_name: "sre-agent-cluster"
  node_count: "3"
  vm_size: "Standard_D4s_v3"
  auto_scaling: "true"
  min_nodes: "2"
  max_nodes: "10"
```

### 5.2 Database: MongoDB Atlas

#### 5.2.1 Selection Rationale
- **Existing Database**: Already in use for application data
- **Atlas Features**: Built-in monitoring and alerting
- **Performance**: High-performance document database
- **Scalability**: Auto-scaling and sharding
- **Security**: Enterprise-grade security features

### 5.3 Monitoring: Signoz + ClickHouse

#### 5.3.1 Selection Rationale
- **Existing Stack**: Already in use for observability
- **Performance**: High-performance observability platform
- **Integration**: Native integration with OpenTelemetry
- **Cost Effective**: Open-source with enterprise features
- **Scalability**: Handles large volumes of data
- **Knowledge Base Storage**: ClickHouse can store incident history and RCA data

## 6. Development and Deployment Tools

### 6.1 Development Tools

#### 6.1.1 Code Quality
```python
# Development Dependencies
black>=23.0.0              # Code formatting
flake8>=6.0.0              # Linting
mypy>=1.0.0                # Type checking
pytest>=7.0.0              # Testing framework
pytest-cov>=4.0.0          # Coverage reporting
pre-commit>=3.0.0          # Git hooks
```

#### 6.1.2 API Development
```python
# API Framework
fastapi>=0.100.0           # Modern API framework
uvicorn>=0.23.0            # ASGI server
pydantic>=2.0.0            # Data validation
httpx>=0.24.0              # HTTP client
```

### 6.2 Deployment Tools

#### 6.2.1 Containerization
```dockerfile
# Dockerfile
FROM python:3.11-slim
WORKDIR /app
COPY requirements.txt .
RUN pip install -r requirements.txt
COPY . .
CMD ["uvicorn", "main:app", "--host", "0.0.0.0", "--port", "8000"]
```

#### 6.2.2 Kubernetes Manifests
```yaml
# Deployment Configuration
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: sre-agent
spec:
  replicas: 3
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: sre-agent
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: sre-agent
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: sre-agent
        image: sre-agent:latest
        ports:
        - containerPort: 8000
        env:
        - name: OPENAI_API_KEY
          valueFrom:
            secretKeyRef:
              name: sre-agent-secrets
              key: openai-api-key
```

## 7. Security Considerations

### 7.1 Authentication and Authorization
- **Azure AD**: Enterprise authentication
- **RBAC**: Role-based access control
- **API Keys**: Secure API key management
- **Secrets Management**: Azure Key Vault integration

### 7.2 Data Protection
- **Encryption**: Data encryption in transit and at rest
- **Data Privacy**: Compliance with data privacy regulations
- **Access Control**: Granular access control
- **Audit Logging**: Comprehensive audit trail

## 8. Performance Considerations

### 8.1 Optimization Strategies
- **Caching**: Redis for data caching
- **Connection Pooling**: Database connection pooling
- **Async Processing**: Asynchronous request processing
- **Load Balancing**: Kubernetes load balancing

### 8.2 Monitoring and Alerting
- **Metrics**: Prometheus metrics collection
- **Logging**: Structured logging with correlation IDs
- **Tracing**: Distributed tracing for request flows
- **Alerting**: Proactive alerting for system issues

## 9. Cost Analysis

### 9.1 Infrastructure Costs
- **AKS Cluster**: ~$500/month for 3 nodes
- **MongoDB Atlas**: ~$200/month for M10 cluster
- **Signoz**: Open-source (self-hosted)
- **Azure OpenAI**: ~$1000/month for expected usage

### 9.2 Development Costs
- **Development Time**: 8-10 weeks for full implementation
- **Maintenance**: Ongoing maintenance and updates
- **Training**: Team training and documentation

## 10. Migration Strategy

### 10.1 Phase 1: Foundation
- Set up development environment
- Implement basic agent framework
- Create MCP servers for data sources

### 10.2 Phase 2: Core Features
- Implement alert processing
- Build RCA analysis engine
- Integrate with Slack

### 10.3 Phase 3: Production
- Deploy to production
- Monitor and optimize
- Train users and iterate

## 11. Risk Assessment

### 11.1 Technical Risks
- **API Dependencies**: Mitigate with fallback mechanisms
- **Performance Issues**: Implement proper monitoring and optimization
- **Integration Failures**: Robust error handling and retry logic

### 11.2 Business Risks
- **User Adoption**: Comprehensive training and documentation
- **Cost Overruns**: Regular cost monitoring and optimization
- **Timeline Delays**: Agile development with regular milestones

## 12. Conclusion

The selected technology stack provides a robust, scalable, and maintainable foundation for the SRE Agent project. The combination of Python, Azure OpenAI, Agno AgentOS, and MCP integration ensures high performance, seamless integration, and future extensibility while meeting all functional and non-functional requirements.
